# Forest_Fire_Prediction

the motive of this project was to achieve a highly accurate real-time predictions of smoke presence for early forest fire detection using data generated by IoT sensors in abandoned and remote ares. We worked on data analysis, feature selection, data preprocessing, and model building achieving accuracy of 99% and deployment of model. We employed naive Bayes and GMM from scratch and other ML algorithms like logistic Regression, Decesion Tree, Random Forest Classifer, XG boost Classifier  etc.Also we deployed the end to end model solving the problem with real world application.

The primary goal is to achieve highly accurate real-time prediction of smoke
1. Achieved accuracy of greater than 99 %.
2. Implemented standard machine learning models, including Naive Bayes Classifier and Gaussian Mixture Models (implemented from scratch), as well as other ML models from scikit-learn, are employed for smoke detection.
3. End-to-end machine learning models are deployed .

## Steps in Model Deployment:

### Data Analysis (EDA): 
Exploratory Data Analysis to understand the dataset. Understanding the distribution of data.

### Data Preprocessing: 
Preparing the data for analysis and modelling. Encoding categorical variables, Outlier detection and correction,

### Feature Engineering: 
Creating new features or modifying existing ones for better model performance. Doing Min_Max scaling

### Algorithm Selection: 
Using Machine Learning algorithms for prediction.

### Model Saving: 
Saving the best-trained model using Pickle.

### Web Application Creation with Streamlit: 
Developing a web application for ease of use.

### Deployment on Streamlit community cloud: 
Deploy the application on the community cloud platform for accessibility.

### Packages Used:
This project relies on Python and the following packages:

Numpy Pandas Matplotlib Seaborn Scikit-learn Scipy Streamlit.

### Youtube Video Link
https://youtu.be/MukrHocAEcg?si=YIBDBO5D15XDLfe4

### Website Link
https://forestfireprediction.streamlit.app/
